Loki + Kube prometheus stack for logging and metrics (#75) (#106)
sixfeetup/cookiecutter-sixiedjango: {{cookiecutter.project_slug}}/README.md

(using our [cookiecutter](https://github.com/sixfeetup/cookiecutter-sixiedjango)), you
can access it at [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/).

## Install Loki for log aggregation and the Kube Prometheus Stack with Grafana Dashboards

### Setup AWS credentials

First export the credentials to your environment variables. Change the values accordingly:

```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID='ABC123456'
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY='ABC123456'
```

Then create a secret in the monitoring namespace:

```
kubectl create secret generic iam-loki-s3 --from-literal=AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=$AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID --from-literal=AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=$AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY -n monitoring
```

### Install monitoring

Now install the loki-stack and kube-prometheus-stack helm charts:

```
make monitoring-up
```

If you want to store the logs in an S3 bucket, you will need to include the yaml values `k8s/_monitoring/loki-stack-values.yaml` file for the `helm install loki` command in the Makefile:

```
helm install loki grafana/loki-stack --values k8s/_monitoring/loki-stack-values.yaml --namespace monitoring --create-namespace
```

### Connect to Grafana dashboard

> Connect to Grafana through local port forwarding, which is the only way to connect currently (since the service Grafana dashboard does not have an ingress entry on it's own)

Reviewer: Ingress can be configured on a per-project basis. Let's mention it as an alternative for now.
```suggestion
You can connect to Grafana through local port forwarding using the steps below. Alternatively, you can set up ingress to point to Grafana.
```

```
make monitoring-port-forward
```

And open http://localhost:8080 on your browser

Login with admin / prom-operator that are the default values. To see these values, run

```

> make monitoring-login

Reviewer: We should encourage users to change this immediately upon login and store it in a vault.

Reviewer: Even better would be a Makefile target to change the password from the default immediately after installion.

Author: I added the command to change the password... so I guess this is not needed, right?

Also, we could generate a random password and put that into a YAML file when spinning up loki-stack. Command is still useful, but might be cleaner that way.

Reviewer: I agree, let's create a secret with a random password when running make.

If React frontend was selected during the project creation
(using our [cookiecutter](https://github.com/sixfeetup/cookiecutter-sixiedjango)), you
can access it at [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/).

## Install Loki for log aggregation and the Kube Prometheus Stack with Grafana Dashboards

Add a node to your cluster that you want to use for monitoring and run `kubectl
get nodes` for a list of nodes. You should see output similar to the following:

```
$ kubectl get nodes
NAME               STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
pool-fc410-bivim   Ready    <none>   48d   v1.26.3
pool-fc410-lziru   Ready    <none>   48d   v1.26.3
pool-fc410-qdznj   Ready    <none>   15d   v1.26.4
```

Pick the node that you want to use for monitoring and add the
"nodetype=monitoring" label to it:

```
kubectl label nodes pool-fc410-qdznj nodetype=monitoring

> ```

Reviewer: It is not necessary to set node affinity for the cookie cutter. This can be a per-project decision.

```
make monitoring-login
```

Login to Grafana and select Connections. This shows the big list of Data Sources that Grafana supports. Search Loki, select it and then hit `Create a Loki data source`

The only thing needed here with the current setup is to specify the URL, as http://loki:3100. Click `Save and test`. After a few seconds, it should show the message

```
Data source connected and labels found.
```
Anything else indicates a problem with the connection!

Hit the `Explore` button and this gets you to the place with existing data sources. Select the newly added Loki data source.

By default, you are on the code view, and you can hit the 'label browser' option on the left side and make a selection based on a number of items - eg select namespace and the namespace that interests you. Hit the `Live` mode on the right side of the screen to see logs in real time - a good check that things are setup as expected!

### Next steps for Loki

1. Enable persistency in Grafana, so that data sources connections (and dashboards?) are not lost on restarts
2. Add a Loki powered dashboard, set thresholds, create alerts, monitor for messages

> 3. Set up ingress for Grafana and Loki

Reviewer: We can remove this from the docs, but we have to action some of the points as part of this PR. Have a look at the helm chart values for the Kube Prometheus and Loki stack to see what values need to be set to create persistent volumes.

Author: Updated.
